<Background>

    In the light of the cutting-edge theory of machine learning, we developed a virus classification based on the Stacking algorithm(VCStacking) from the perspective of ensemble learning. 
    First of all, according to the Baltimore virus classification system, we classified the viruses data of the National Center for Biotechnology Information into six groups. 
Then,we analyzed the correlation between different classifiers by correlation analysis and selected three classifiers whose relationship was the weakest, 
including SVM, Random Forests, and AdaBoost, as the base classifiers of the Stacking algorithm. Meanwhile, we chose the Logistic Regression model as the meta classifier of the Stacking algorithm. 
Afterwards, we adjusted the parameters through the grid search algorithm to find the optimal parameters. 
Finally, an algorithm evaluation metric with Macro-Accuracy, Macro-Precision, Macro-Recall, and Macro-F1 score was utilized to assess the performance of the proposed model. 
    The results show that the VCStacking, which merged multiple single models, obtain the best Macro-Accuracy, Macro-Precision, Macro-Recall, and Macro-F1 score.
 So, the proposed VCStacking outperforms the state-of-the-art machine learning algorithm and has the potential ability to classify different virus groups.

<Data Description>

1. The whole-genomes in our dataset was downloaded from the Nucleotide Database Support Center of the National Center for Biotechnology Information (https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/) in January 2019. 

2. The process of downloading gene sequences: 

    According to the latest introduction of the virus classification system in the tenth report of the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses, we learned that viruses could be roughly classified into six groups 
based on the Baltimore virus classification system. These six groups include double-stranded DNA (dsDNA), single-stranded DNA (ssDNA), double-stranded RNA (dsRNA), justice single-stranded RNA ((+)ss RNA),
antisense single-stranded RNA ((-)ss RNA) and Retrovirus (Retro).
    Then, in the database of the National Center for Biotechnology Information,  we searched for Family when limited Species, Molecule types, and Sequence length. 
Furthermore, selected viruses and genomic DNA/RNA with sequence lengths ranging from hundreds to thousands of BP.
Finally, we downloaded 82960 gene sequences, including all six groups of viruses. The specific quantity of each type of virus data was shown as follows. 
    -------------------------
     Group	       Quantity
    -------------------------
    dsDNA	        11860
    dsRNA	        15800
    Retro	        15800
    ssDNA	          7900
    (-)ssRNA      15800
    (+)ssRNA     15800
    -------------------------

3. Due to the limitation of upload file size, we uploaded files of both different types of virus whole-genomes and preprocessed data separately.
    The files of virus whole-genomes is zip type. The files of preprocessed data is mat type. 

<Code Introduction>

1. Runtime environment
    To use this program, the environment of Python 3.7 are needed at least. And, you need to install some packages, such as sklearn, numpy, pandas, scipy.io, xgboost, lightgbm and time. 

2. Data import
    Please import the training set at each program "train.mat" and the test set at "test.mat". Enter the variable name of the training set at "train" and the test set at "test.mat".
It should be noted that the dataset imported in this program must be the mat type, and ensure that the variable name of dataset corresponds to the input name. 

3. The function of program
    The file of VC_Chi2 used to analyze the correlation between various algorithms; the file of VCStacking is a virus classification based on the Stacking algorithm 
which applied SVM, Random Forests, and AdaBoost as the base classifiers and Logistic Regression model as the meta classifier. 

4. The output of results
    The prediction results of each base classifier are saved in the variables y_RF_pred, y_SVM_pred, and y_Adb_pred respectively. The prediction result of VCStacking is saved in the variables y_sta_pred. 
After the prediction result, the confusion matrix and evaluation indicators of each corresponding algorithm are shown immediately.
